#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Computational Creativity Lab 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Alia Morsi: u163640
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Usage
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Patch Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Just to get started, to listen to output, open system.pd.
 Then, click the toggle button on the markov patch, on the first main_patch_addi
tive wav_gen box, and slide the amplitude in that same wave_gen box until
 you can hear a sound.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
markov:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Implements first order Markov.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Note Duration
\series default
 can be controlled via the tempo slider: This ranges from 200 to 400, and
 is used to set the metro object that times the writing of the next note,
 and is also used to set the duration of the midi note output.
 Since the duration of the note is the same as the time to wait between
 successive notes, there would be no silence.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
However, only the frequency (and not the amplitude) is sent from the patches
 to my synth, so technically the 0 amplitude message to signal the stop
 of the note will not be processed as a stopping note.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
The boxes are from 0 - 11 and indicate the midi pitch
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Since the pitches are from 0 - 11 only, the octave number box can be used
 to raise the output by 
\series bold
octaves.

\series default
 The possible range is 1 - 8 and defaults to 4.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
To start the patch, hit the toggle box.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To move between markov probability tables, there is feedback within the
 markov patch (indicated by the control connection that spans bottom to
 top in the patch, kept on purpose to be super clear that there is feedback).
 To see this in the markov.pd patch, observe the 2nd output of the coll object,
 where it is clear how the index is changing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
midi_2_freq_ampl:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Can be used for midi control (if the inlets are ignored and the GUI is used),
 or for midi display (if the inlets are used, the GUI responds to their
 input).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The octave number can be modified from this box (if there is no input from
 the inlet), or it can be used to display what's coming in as input
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The pitch is displayed in the bang button keyboard and in the symbol boxes.
 Note that we only use natural and sharp symbols to indicate pitch.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
main_patch_additive:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The additive synthesizer patch takes four input frequencies.
 Only one of them will take input from the markov patch.
 Only one other input is connected to a midi_2_freq_ampl patch, and the
 rest are kept disconnected, although they can be controlled via their sliders.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Limitations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Note that the accidentals (natural and sharp) should be more sophisticated
 if it were to take into account scale context to decide whether a note
 is sharp or flat (A flat not equal G# etc), but that was not considered
 for this assignment, although scale context is important if this shall
 could be used musically.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Musically speaking, the probabilities of first or second order would vary
 depending on the scale we are in.
 For example, If I am in C major, the probability of notes that follow an
 A is different than those that would follow an A if I were in A Major.
 However, this is understood as a limitation but not explored at the moment.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
There is still no ADSR on the synthesizer.
 That was missing from last week and I did not get the chance to improve
 it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Another problem is that any amplitude change with the wave_gen connected
 to the Markov generator creates a clicking sound.
 That’s a huge problem but I’m not sure what should be done.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
I guess it is important to carefully make a .coll file because at this point,
 there is not much aesthetic difference between a random note generator
 and my current system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Ideas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would be nice to have probability tables for each scale and to just change
 the scale using midi input (i.e from midi input you can get the tonic of
 the scale).
 That can still be Markov order 1 as we would consider only the past note,
 but would need a different representation (to view the probabilities as
 distances from tonic, and then after calculating the necessary distance,
 add it to the current tonic).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Implementation 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Overview of Choices:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
For this assignment, the synthesizer from last week was used (main_patch_additiv
e.pd).
 Minor tweaks were made to it in terms of initialization and updating the
 inlets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The aforementioned markov.pd and midi_2_freq_ampl.pd patches are this week's
 additions to the system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Minor changes to some of the patches provided in the lectures.
 The ones that were used are provided in lec_3_patches folder of the submission
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
makenote is used in the markov.pd, such that the output of the patch is 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
the probabilities used in the collection can be found in probabilities/lab3.coll
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
